README.md, before:

# Fantastic Four - Space Shooter Game Expansion

## Team members

| Name        | XP Core Value |
| ----------- | ------------- |
| Yikang Chen | Feedback      |
| Jianle Li   | Communication |
| Ray Sheng   | Respect       |
| Yiyang Yin  |               |

## About the project
### Description 
Space Invaders of 1978 pioneered a genre of video games that gave rise to a vast lineage of games over the past 40+ years. The original subgenre of space shooter games had very simple gameplay due to the technical limitations of their time. The player typically takes control of a fighter jet in space and shoots down alien invaders. The player-controlled fighter moves left and right to aim at incoming enemies and dodge enemy attacks, shooting a single projectile straight ahead. The simplicity of this type of games made it an ideal model for students to replicate as a beginner's tutorial in game development and computer programming in general.

For our project, we took an open-source [simplified Galaga clone](https://www.greenfoot.org/scenarios/25287) made with Greenfoot, updated it with new gameplay features and brought it into the glorious new world of the 1990s.

### Feature Set
Yiyang

### How to run this project
- Option 1: Playing [online]()
- Option 2:
  * Install [Greenfoot](https://www.greenfoot.org/download)
  * Clone this [repository](https://github.com/nguyensjsu/fa22-202-fantastic-four)
  * Run `project.greenfoot` inside the src folder

## Project videos
12/3 meeting
* [User Story Video]()
* [Project Demo Video]()
* [Stand-up meeting]()
* [Retrospective meeting]()

## Project architecture
### UI Wireframes
Jianle
* Start Screen
* Game Screen
* Game Over Screen
Yiyang
* LeaderBoard Screen

### High level diagrams
#### Architecture Diagram
Yiyang

#### Component diagram
Yikang

#### State diagram
Ray

## Key feature designs
### Yikang Chen

### Jianle Li

### Ray Sheng
#### Power-up Items and Effects
Enemies may drop power-up items upon death. Drop rates, randomization, and the specific method that adds power-up objects into the game world are handled by a Singleton LootManager object. Singleton Pattern does not count towards project grading but it is still a useful design pattern to apply.

#### Secondary Attacks
The player-controlled fighter now has the ability to launch a secondary attack besides the vanilla basic attack. When the player-controlled fighter picks up a "Fire Support" power-up item, it gains the temporary ability to launch a corresponding secondary attack by pressing the "D" key.

Secondary Attack modes are managed by using a Strategy pattern. The "D" key calls the `Fighter.fireSupport()` method, which in turn calls the `boom()` method of the fighter object's current Fire Support Strategy, thereby applying different effects to the game world depending on which secodary attack mode is employed at the time.

In this particular application of the Strategy Pattern, instead of using an interface to represent the abstract strategy, we used a parent class that also doubles the default strategy class with which secondary fire is not active.

[!Secondary Attack Strategies](images/SecondaryAttackStrategies.png)

#### Healing and Shielding


### Yiyang Yin

## Project backlog and chart
* Sprint Task Sheet
* Burn down chart
* Weekly Scrum Task Board
  Yiyang
   * Week 1

   * Week 2

   * Week 3

   * Week 4

## Individual Contributions and team journals
### Contributions

* Yikang Chen

* Jianle Li
  * In this project, I am primarily responsible for functions pertaining to enemies and have mostly enhanced three features:
    1) The enemies' appearances has transitioned from a `one-time appearance` to a `steady appearance`. 
    2) The enemies will select its way of movement at random toward to player. It can choose three different movement methods, which are: `Stay still(default)`, `Move Vertically Down` and `Move Toward The Player`. (Strategy pattern is in used here.)
       * `Strategy Pattern `
         * For each movement method (or algorithm), we use a separate class for encapsulation. These algorithms are also interchangeable. So it is very suitable to use strategy pattern. This pattern makes the program very scalable. If we suddenly want to add a new movement method, we only need to add a new class.
         * Class Diagram for this will be show as following：![strategy pattern](images/EnemyMovingStrategy.png 'strategy pattern')
    3) Refactoring enemies lives implementation. Allowing enemies to `upgrade its level` (More lives)  (Decorator pattern is in used here.)
       * `Decorator Pattern`
         * The original enemy, whether it is Goei or Zako, has a health value of 1 and will disappear after being hit by a laser.
         In order to strengthen/extend the functions related to enemy life, we use the decorator pattern to divide the enemy into three levels:`Normal Enemy One Life`, `Elite Enemies Two Lives` and `Boss multiple lives`.
         * In different stages of the game, there will be different levels of enemies. That is to say, when creating an enemy object, use different life decorators to decorate the enemy object.
           Use `EnemyOneLifeDecorator` for normal enemies, `EnemyTwoLifeDecorator` for elite enemies, and `EnemyThreeLifeDecorator` for bosses.
         * Class Diagram for this will be show as following：![decorator pattern](images/EnemyLifeDecorator.png 'decorator pattern')
    4) (Pending work) By reading the current score of the player, the monster may be upgraded further (an upgraded version realized by the third features above).
       1) Each 500/1000 score is separated into several interval. Each interval has a unique assortment of enemies. The number of enemies at each interval grows, as does their speed. 
       2) Before reaching a specific score, the boss will not emerge.

* Ray Sheng
  1) Researched potential project candidates and suggested project source code  
  2) Added Powerup Items to the game for enemies to drop on death that the player can pick up for advanced effects
  3) Introduced some variety to gameplay in the form of secondary attacks that can be performed by the player-controlled fighter
  4) Added healing and shielding mechanisms to the game to improve player survivability and extending play session time


* Yiyang Yin

### Journals
- Yikang Chen - [Member Journal](/individual_journals/yikang_chen_journal.md)
- Jianle Li - [Member Journal](/individual_journals/jianle_li_journal.md)
- Ray Sheng - [Member Journal](/individual_journals/ray_sheng_journal.md)
- Yiyang Yin - [Member Journal](/individual_journals/yiyang_yin_journal.md)

Commit message:

added State and State transitions to readme

README.md, after:

# Fantastic Four - Space Shooter Game Modification

## Team members

| Name        | XP Core Value |
| ----------- | ------------- |
| Yikang Chen | Feedback      |
| Jianle Li   | Communication |
| Ray Sheng   | Respect       |
| Yiyang Yin  |               |

## About the project
### Description 
Space Invaders of 1978 pioneered a genre of video games that gave rise to a vast lineage of games over the past 40+ years. The original subgenre of space shooter games had very simple gameplay due to the technical limitations of their time. The player typically takes control of a fighter jet in space and shoots down alien invaders. The player-controlled fighter moves left and right to aim at incoming enemies and dodge enemy attacks, shooting a single projectile straight ahead. The simplicity of this type of games made it an ideal model for students to replicate as a beginner's tutorial in game development and computer programming in general.

For our project, we took an open-source [simplified Galaga clone](https://www.greenfoot.org/scenarios/25287) made with Greenfoot, updated it with new gameplay features and brought it into the glorious new world of the 1990s.

### Feature Set
Yiyang

### How to run this project
- Option 1: Playing [online]()
- Option 2:
  * Install [Greenfoot](https://www.greenfoot.org/download)
  * Clone this [repository](https://github.com/nguyensjsu/fa22-202-fantastic-four)
  * Run `project.greenfoot` inside the src folder

## Project videos
12/3 meeting
* [User Story Video]()
* [Project Demo Video]()
* [Stand-up meeting]()
* [Retrospective meeting]()

## Project architecture
### UI Wireframes
Jianle
* Start Screen
* Game Screen
* Game Over Screen
Yiyang
* LeaderBoard Screen

### High level diagrams
#### Architecture Diagram
Yiyang

#### Component diagram
Yikang

#### State diagram
Ray

## Key feature designs
### Yikang Chen

### Jianle Li

### Ray Sheng
#### Power-up Items and Effects
Enemies may drop power-up items upon death. Drop rates, randomization, and the specific method that adds power-up objects into the game world are handled by a Singleton LootManager object. Singleton Pattern does not count towards project grading but it is still a useful design pattern to apply, because this way we can easily adjust drop rates by modifying only the LootManager class instead of having to go into each enemy class.

To keep track of which power-up effect is active at any given time, we applied the State pattern to manage the Fighter object's power-up state.

##### State Class Diagram

[!Power-Up State Class Diagram](images/PowerupStates.png)

##### State Transition Table

[!Power-Up State Transition Table](images.PowerupStatesTransition.png)

#### Secondary Attacks
The player-controlled fighter now has the ability to launch a secondary attack besides the vanilla basic attack. When the player-controlled fighter picks up a "Fire Support" power-up item, it gains the temporary ability to launch a corresponding secondary attack by pressing the "D" key.

Secondary Attack modes are managed by using a Strategy pattern. The "D" key calls the `Fighter.fireSupport()` method, which in turn calls the `boom()` method of the fighter object's current Fire Support Strategy, thereby applying different effects to the game world depending on which secodary attack mode is employed at the time.

In this particular application of the Strategy Pattern, instead of using an interface to represent the abstract strategy, we used a parent class that also doubles the default strategy class with which secondary fire is not active.

Currently, only 2 different secondary attack types are implemented. Due to the use of the Strategy Pattern, more varieties of secondary attacks can be easily added in a modular way.

##### Strategy Class Diagram
[!Secondary Attack Strategies](images/SecondaryAttackStrategies.png)

#### Healing and Shielding


### Yiyang Yin

## Project backlog and chart
* Sprint Task Sheet
* Burn down chart
* Weekly Scrum Task Board
  Yiyang
   * Week 1

   * Week 2

   * Week 3

   * Week 4

## Individual Contributions and team journals
### Contributions

* Yikang Chen

* Jianle Li
  * In this project, I am primarily responsible for functions pertaining to enemies and have mostly enhanced three features:
    1) The enemies' appearances has transitioned from a `one-time appearance` to a `steady appearance`. 
    2) The enemies will select its way of movement at random toward to player. It can choose three different movement methods, which are: `Stay still(default)`, `Move Vertically Down` and `Move Toward The Player`. (Strategy pattern is in used here.)
       * `Strategy Pattern `
         * For each movement method (or algorithm), we use a separate class for encapsulation. These algorithms are also interchangeable. So it is very suitable to use strategy pattern. This pattern makes the program very scalable. If we suddenly want to add a new movement method, we only need to add a new class.
         * Class Diagram for this will be show as following：![strategy pattern](images/EnemyMovingStrategy.png 'strategy pattern')
    3) Refactoring enemies lives implementation. Allowing enemies to `upgrade its level` (More lives)  (Decorator pattern is in used here.)
       * `Decorator Pattern`
         * The original enemy, whether it is Goei or Zako, has a health value of 1 and will disappear after being hit by a laser.
         In order to strengthen/extend the functions related to enemy life, we use the decorator pattern to divide the enemy into three levels:`Normal Enemy One Life`, `Elite Enemies Two Lives` and `Boss multiple lives`.
         * In different stages of the game, there will be different levels of enemies. That is to say, when creating an enemy object, use different life decorators to decorate the enemy object.
           Use `EnemyOneLifeDecorator` for normal enemies, `EnemyTwoLifeDecorator` for elite enemies, and `EnemyThreeLifeDecorator` for bosses.
         * Class Diagram for this will be show as following：![decorator pattern](images/EnemyLifeDecorator.png 'decorator pattern')
    4) (Pending work) By reading the current score of the player, the monster may be upgraded further (an upgraded version realized by the third features above).
       1) Each 500/1000 score is separated into several interval. Each interval has a unique assortment of enemies. The number of enemies at each interval grows, as does their speed. 
       2) Before reaching a specific score, the boss will not emerge.

* Ray Sheng
  1) Researched potential project candidates and suggested project source code  
  2) Added Powerup Items to the game for enemies to drop on death that the player can pick up for advanced effects
  3) Introduced some variety to gameplay in the form of secondary attacks that can be performed by the player-controlled fighter
  4) Added healing and shielding mechanisms to the game to improve player survivability and extending play session time


* Yiyang Yin

### Journals
- Yikang Chen - [Member Journal](/individual_journals/yikang_chen_journal.md)
- Jianle Li - [Member Journal](/individual_journals/jianle_li_journal.md)
- Ray Sheng - [Member Journal](/individual_journals/ray_sheng_journal.md)
- Yiyang Yin - [Member Journal](/individual_journals/yiyang_yin_journal.md)
